Changelog
=========

1.0 (2013-12-23)
----------------

- Updated classifiers list and keywords for package
  [macagua]

- Added Spanish translation
  [macagua]

- Added i18n support
  [macagua]

- Fix typo that broke Doormat when used with plone.app.contenttypes version 1.0b2 or above
  [ericof]

- Fixed DoormatCollection without limit
  [lccruz]


0.9.1 (2013-10-10)
------------------

- Make content creation depend on types, fixes error in install.
  Make clicking "Deactivate" run the uninstall profile.
  [khink]


0.9 (2013-10-10)
----------------

- Remove UML.
  Add tests, use Travis and Coveralls.
  Create a Doormat on install.
  Add uninstall profile.
  [khink]


0.8 (2013-08-23)
----------------

- Use archetypes.referencebrowserwidget in the DoormatReference if
  available.  Note: archetypes.referencebrowserwidget 2.4.15 and
  2.4.16 broke non-multi reference selection, so if your Plone version
  uses one of those versions, you should edit your buildout to use a
  newer version.
  [maurits]

- Moved to github: https://github.com/collective/Products.Doormat
  [maurits]

- Make compatible with Dexterity and new collections
  [pbauer]

- Subclass from ATCTContent instead of BaseContent
  (taken from https://github.com/pymilya/Products.Doormat)

- Search for doormats only in the navigation root.  This allows to
  have a different doormat (or no doormat) in parts of the site.
  [maurits]

0.7 (2011-06-22)
----------------

Merged collections branch.

- Add "DoormatCollection" type, which takes links from a Collection.
  Thanks to Alessandro Vermeulen's branch at https://github.com/spockz/Products.Doormat.

- Don't subclass DoormatCollection from DoormatMixin.
  [khink]

- Add labels and description for fields, add a pointer in the documentation.
  [khink]

- contentValues() instead of objectValues() (only expose CMS content)
  [khink]

0.6 (2010-11-11)
----------------

- Ability to style doormat columns by position.
  [malthe]

- Don't use the catalog, traverse using objectValues()
  https://dev.plone.org/plone/ticket/11265
  [khink]

0.5 (2010-10-25)
----------------

- Set global_allow=False on DoormatSection by adding tagged value in UML.
  (agx mysteriously sets it to True by default)
  [khink]

- Developer documentation (about using AGX)

- Explicitly set `external-link` class for Link type objects.

0.4 (2010-10-05)
----------------

- Allow adding text as well as links.
  http://plone.org/products/doormat/issues/6
  [renskers]

- Re-added skins folders, as these will be generated by AGX.
  (Make them not empty.)
  http://plone.org/products/doormat/issues/4
  [khink]

- Add class on 'doormat-container' div for number of columns.
  Add CSS so columns are equal width.
  [khink]

0.3 (2010-07-19)
----------------

- Remove empty skins/ folders doormat_styles/ and doormat_templates/ (fixes
  http://plone.org/products/doormat/issues/4: Skin dirs missing from egg)

- Added viewlet doormat.footer.bare to display the doormat without the div.row
  and div.cell wrapping.

0.2 (2010-06-11)
----------------

- Add viewlet to browser layer (fixes
  http://plone.org/products/doormat/issues/3: Uninstall cleanly)

0.1.1 (2010-06-09)
------------------

- added locales/NOTEMPTY.txt to ensure locales/ is added to egg. This fixes #1
  (http://plone.org/products/doormat/issues/1)
- updated doc

0.1 (2010-06-08)
----------------

Initial release

