.TH fsq\-push 1 "2014-04-4" "Axial" "Axial System Commands Manual"
.SH NAME
fsq\-push \- Distribute a work item from a host-queue to a remote
.BR fsq (7)
queue.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "fsq push"
.BR "" "[ " flags " ]"
.IR " src_queue " "  "trg_queue " " host " " work-item " [ " work-item " [...]]]"
.br
.B "fsq push"
.BR "" "[ " "\-h" "|" "\-\-help " "]"
.BR "" "[ " "\-v" "|" "\-\-verbose " "]"
.br
.BR "         " "[ " "\-p" | "\-\-protocol " " ]"
.BR "" "[ " "\-L"| "\-\-no\-lock " " ]"
.br
.BR "         " "[ " "\-i"| "\-\-ignore\-listener " " ]"
.BR "" "[ " "\-t"| "\-\-trigger " " ]"
.br
.IR "         src_queue" " " trg_queue " " " work_item " [ " work_item " [...]]]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR fsq\-push (1)
scans the
.BR fsq (7)
.I src_queue's
.IR "FSQ_HOSTS"
directory for
.I work items
and distributes them over
.I protocol
to the
.BR fsq (7)
queue
.I trg_queue
on
.I host.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
.br
Help.  Print usage to stdout and exit 0.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
.br
Verbose.  Print additional diagnostic information to stderr.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-protocol
.br
Protocol. Transport
.R work items
using the specified protocol. Currently only jsonrpc is supported
.TP
.BR \-L ", " \-\-no\-lock
.br
Do not attempt to acquire an exclusive lock on a work\-item prior to
.I program
execution.  Should
.B \-\-no\-lock
be specified, the user should take care to ensure that no other processes may
work on a work\-item.  If users are using the
.BR trigger\-listen (1)
program, they may send the flag
.BI \-c 1
to ensure concurrency of
.IR 1,
otherwise users are encouraged to use a locking program (ex:
.BR flock "(1), " lockf "(1), or " setlock "(8))"
to ensure that work is not processed multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-ignore\-listener
.br
If not specified, exit 111 if there is no listener for the
.I src_queue\'s "FSQ_TRIGGER".
.BR \-t", " \-\-trigger
.br
pull the
.I "FSQ_TRIGGER"
once the work-item is distributed to
.I trg_queue
on
.I host.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The
.B fsq\-push
program exits 0 for success, 100 for bad usage, and 111 for expected error
cases.  All other exit statuses imply that something beyond the imagination of
the programmer has occured.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fsq\-scan "(1), " fsq\-add\-host "(1), " fsq\-jsonrpc "(1), " fsq (7)
