INSTALLATION
============

flo-check-homework is packaged with Distutils (the still-current
standard framework for packaging simple Python programs). With the
current state of Python packaging and installation tools, there are
several ways to perform the installation of flo-check-homework from
source.

Probably, the easiest and cleanest method at this date (August 2013) is
to use pip (optionally in a virtualenv). Typically, you just have to
run:

  pip install /path/to/flo-check-homework-X.Y.Z.tar.gz

with the appropriate privileges. Uninstallation is as easy as:

  pip uninstall flo-check-homework

For more information about pip and virtualenv, you can visit:

  <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip>

and:

  <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv>

The above command should be enough to run flo-check-homework. If you
want to use flo-check-homework-decorate-games to have flo-check-homework
automatically started whenever some programs that you have defined are
invoked (acting as a sort of "proxy" for these programs), please refer
to README.rst (or README.xhtml on the web site) and the output of:

  flo-check-homework-decorate-games --help


Old way, without pip
--------------------

The following instructions explain how to install flo-check-homework
directly from its setup.py, without using pip. If possible, the method
based on pip is preferable because it makes uninstallation standard and
easy.

Here are the steps:
  - make this file's directory your shell's current directory
  - optionally edit setup.cfg (cf. the "Installing Python Modules"
    chapter of the Python documentation).

  - a) 1) type:

            python3 ./setup.py build

       2) then, as root (after replacing /usr/local with the actual
          installation prefix you want to use):

            python3 ./setup.py install --prefix=/usr/local \
                                       --record /path/to/foo

          where foo is a file of your choice that will contain the list
          of all files installed on your system by the preceding
          command. This will make uninstallation easy (you could ommit
          the "--record /path/to/foo", but uninstallation could not be
          automated, then).

    OR

    b) type, as root (after replacing the installation prefix):

            python3 ./setup.py install --prefix=/usr/local \
                                       --record /path/to/foo

       This will automatically build the package before installing it.
       The observations made in a) also apply here.


If this default installation is not what you wish, please read the
Distutils documentation. In Python 2.1 and above, it is included in the
base Python documentation and the chapter you'll need is most probably
"Installing Python Modules".


UNINSTALLATION
==============

If you installed flo-check-homework with pip, you can uninstall it with the
following command:

  pip uninstall flo-check-homework

(which should be run under the account that was used to run the
"pip install" command)

Otherwise, if you have followed the old installation procedure, you have
a /path/to/foo file that contains all the files the installation process
put on your system. Great! All you have to do is:

   while read file; do rm -f "$file"; done < /path/to/foo

under a POSIX-style shell and with the appropriate privileges (maybe
root, depending on where you installed flo-check-homework).

Note: this will handle file names with spaces correctly, unlike the
simpler "rm -f $(cat /path/to/foo)".


# Local Variables:
# coding: utf-8
# fill-column: 72
# End:
