This is not fit for public consumption yet! See the milestones in 'issues' -
the initial public-ish issue will be around new year, and the 1.0.0 is
supposed to come out by Jan 20, 2013. As of now, this is very much work in
progress. 

Elasticsearch benchmarking tools
--------------------------------
'esbench' is a set of python 2.7 scripts for benchmarking Elasticsearch. The
two primary uses are for capacity planning (guessing how much oomph you need
to do what what you think you need to do), and for performance tuning (trying
out various index, mapping, and query settings in a consistent and
reproducible manner). 

Installation
------------

For now, since the project is under active development, I recommend that you
install from the 'dev' branch, with: 

    pip install https://github.com/mkocikowski/esbench/archive/dev.zip

This should give you a reasonable stable and reasonably current version. There
is always the 'master' (replace 'dev.zip' with 'master.zip' in the command
above), but I really think for now you are best off with 'dev'. 


Tests
-----
Once 'esbench' has been installed (no need for local Elasticsearch instance):

	python -m esbench.test.units

This may take few minutes as part of the test involves downloading a sample
data file from s3. 

Quick start
-----------
With an instance of elasticsearch running on localhost:9200, do: 

	esbench run
	
When the bench run has finished, you can review the results with: 

	esbench show

To get help: 
	
	esbench --help
	esbench <command> --help

Overview
--------
An Elasticsearch index is composed of a set of 1 or more Lucene indexes
(designated as primary and replica 'shards' by ES). The Elasticsearch cluster
routes incoming documents and search requests to individual Lucene indexes /
shards as needed. A single Lucene index is the basic unit on which indexing
and search operations are executed, and so the performance of individual
Lucene indexes largely determines the performance of a cluster. Lucene indexes
store data on disk in append-only 'segments', which can be periodically
cleaned up and merged. The number and size (bytes) of these segments, and the
disk IO, ultimately determine the speed at which data can be retrieved. Read
the
[merge](http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/
index-modules-merge.html) documentation on the ES site. 

The basic approach to benchmarking is to create an Elasticsearch index with 1
primary and no replica shards (a single Lucene index), load it with data, and
run representative use patterns against it, adding more data until the
performance drops below acceptable levels. That will determine the maximum
viable size of a single shard given the data, use patterns, and hardware.
Total expected data size divided by the viable single index size gives then
the number of required shards. With a rule of thumb of no more than 2 shards
per core, this allows for simple capacity planning. 

The 'run' command
-----------------
When the 'run' command is executed, a 'esbench_test' index is created on the
target ES host, populated with provided data, and queried at specified
intervals. The queries which will be executed against the index are provided
in the 'config.json' file. Observations taken while the benchmark is running
are recorded in the 'esbench_stats' index on the ES host. Each benchmark
results in one document of type 'bench' and one or more documents of type
'obs' (observation) added to the 'esbench_stats' index. 

When executed with default arguments, the 'run' command will result in a quick
(too small to be meaningful) benchmark run against the local ES instance,
using US Patent Application data downloaded from S3 (into /tmp, size 99MB).
The intention is to provide sample data to verify that the 'rig is working'
and to familiarize the user with observation data.

The first argument to play with is 'maxsize', the only non-keyword parameter,
which specifies the total number of documents to be inserted into the test
index, or the total byte size of data to be inserted. Default value is 1mb
allows the benchmark to run in just few seconds. Running: 

	esbench run 5gb

will result in an index of about 4.8GB, which starts to yield meaningful
performance information. Experimenting with queries, and the various
parameters (try adjusting the number of segments or optimize calls) will yield
interesting changes. Depending on the specified logging level, you will see
information somewhat like that when running the benchmark: 

	[...]
    INFO:esbench.bench:loaded 169 lines into index 'esbench_test', size: 10501511 (10.00MB)
    INFO:esbench.bench:optimize call: 4.04s
    INFO:esbench.bench:beginning observation no: 10, 2013-12-20T01:10:09Z
    INFO:esbench.bench:ran query 'match_no_rnd' 100 times in 0.48s
    INFO:esbench.bench:ran query 'match_abs' 100 times in 0.29s
    INFO:esbench.bench:ran query 'match' 100 times in 0.48s
    INFO:esbench.bench:ran query 'mlt' 100 times in 0.12s
    INFO:esbench.bench:ran query 'match_srt' 100 times in 0.66s
    INFO:esbench.bench:finished observation no: 10, id: 32baae87, time: 2.033
    INFO:esbench.bench:recorded observation into: esbench_stats/obs/32baae87
    INFO:esbench.bench:load complete; loaded total 2626 lines into index 'esbench_test', total size: 105182234 (100.00mb)
    INFO:esbench.bench:recorded benchmark into: esbench_stats/bench/4c5b7f33
    [...]

As data is stored into the 'esbench_stats' index, you can access it raw (see the last
log line for the URL). Once you've done that, you'll see why you want to use
the 'show' command, described in the next section: 

	curl -XGET localhost:9200/esbench_stats/bench/4c5b7f33


The 'show' command
------------------
The 'show' command will retrieve previously recorded benchmark information
from an ES instance, and format it and display it as requested. Running it
without parameters will output tabular data for all benchmarks recorded on
localhost. 

The 'dump' command
------------------
Dump previously recorded benchmark data as a series of curl calls. These can
be replayed to populate a new index. The idea with this is that this way you
can easily share the raw benchmark data, say by dumping it into gist. Or you
can just copy and paste right in the terminal - it is just a series of curl
calls. To dump into a file:

    esbench dump > foo.curl

To load these into an elasticsearch index on localhost:

    . foo.curl

The 'clear' command
-------------------
Deletes specified benchmarks and related observations. 

License
-------

The project uses [the MIT license](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT):

    Copyright (c) 2013 Mikolaj Kocikowski
    
    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
    to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
    the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
    and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
    Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
    
    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
    all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
    
    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
    THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
    
