
.. wxmplot documentation master file

WXMPLOT:  simple, rich plotting widgets for wxPython using matplotlib
============================================================================

.. _wxPython: http://www.wxpython.org/
.. _matplotlib:  http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/

The wxmplot python package provides easy-to-use, richly featured
plotting widgets for `wxPython`_ built on top of the wonderful
`matplotlib`_ library.  While matplotlib provides excellent general
purpose plotting functionality, and supports a variety of GUI and
non-GUI backends, it does not have a very tight integration with any
particular GUI toolkit.  Similarly, while wxPython has some plotting
functionality, it has nothing as good as matplotlib.  The wxmplot
package attempts to bridge this gap, providing wx.Panels for basic 2D
line plots and image display that are richly featured and provide
end-users with interactivity (zooming, reading positions, rotating
images) and customization (line types, labels, marker type, colors,
and color tables) of the graphics without having to know matplotlib.
Wxmplot does not expose all of matplotlib's capabilities, but does
provide 2D plotting and image display Panels and Frames can be used
simply in wxPython applications to handle many use cases.

The wxmplot package is aimed at programmers who want to include high
quality scientific graphics in their applications that can be
manipulated by the end-user.  If you're a python programmer who is
comfortable writing pylab scripts or plotting interactively from
IPython, this package may seem too limiting for your needs.


.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   installation
   plotpanel
   imagepanel

